   PYROTECHNICAL DELIGHTS
                               WRITTEN BY RAGNER ROCKER

  Many of you out there probably have fantasies of revenge against teachers,
principals and other people who are justassholes.  depending on your level of
hatred of this person i would advise that you do some of these following
experiments:

  (1) Pouring dishsoap into the gas tank of your enemy- many of you already
know that gasoline + dishsoap(e.g.  joy, palmolive, etc.) form a mixture
called napalm.  now napalm is a jelly-like  substance used in bombs,
flamethrowers, etc.  now you can only guess what this mixture would do to
someone's fuel line!!!!

  (2) Spreading dirty motor oil/castor oil on someone's exhaust pipe- when
the exhaust pipe heats up(and it will!!)the motor oil or castor oil on the pipe
will cause thick, disgusting smoke to ooze forth from the back of that car.
Who knows maybe he/she might be pulled over and given a ticket!!

  (3) Light Bulb Bomb- see part one of the file

 (4) Simple smoke/stink bomb- you can purchaase sulphur at a drugstore under
the name flowers of sulphur.  now when sulphur burns it will give off a very
strong odor and plenty of smoke.  now all you need is a fuse from a
firecracker, a tin can, and the sulphur.  fill the can with sulphur(pack very
lightly), put aluninum foil over the top of the can, poke a small hole into
the foil, insert the wick, and light it and get out of the room if you value
your lungs.  you can find many uses for this( or at least i hope so.
 
                               FUN WITH ALARMS
 
    A fact I forgot to mention in my previous alarm articles is that one can
also use polyurethane foam in a can to silence horns and bells.  You can
purchase this at any hardware store as insulation.  it is easy to handle and
dries faster.

Many people that travel carry a pocket alarm with them.  this alarm is a small
device that is hung around the door knob, and when someone touches the knob his
body capacitance sets off the alarm.  these nasty nuisences can be found by
walking down the halls of a hotel and touching all the door knobs very quickly.
if you happen to chance upon one, attach a 3' length of wire or other metal
object to the knob.  this will cause the sleeping business pig inside to think
someone is breaking in and call room service for help.  all sorts of fun and
games will ensue.

    Some high-security instalations use keypads just like touch-tone pads (a
registered trade mark of bell systems) to open locks or disarm alarms.  most
use three or four digits.  to figure out the code, wipe the key-pad free from
all fingerprints by using a rag soaked in rubbing alcohol.  after the keypad
has been used just apply finger print dust and all four digits will be marked.
now all you have to do is figure out the order. if you want to have some fun
with a keypad, try pressing the * and # at the same time.  many units use this
as a panic button. This will bring the owner and the cops running and ever-one
will have a good time.  never try to remove these panels from the wall, as
they have built-in tamper switches.
 
    On the subject of holdups, most places (including supermarkets, liqour
stores, etc.) have what is known as a money clip.  these little nasties are
placed at the bottom of a money drawer and when the last few bills are
with-drawn a switch closes and sets the alarm off.  that's why when you make
your withdrawl it's best to help yourself so you can check for these little
nasties.  if you find them, merely insert ones underneath the pile of
twenties, and then pull out the twenties, leaving the one-dollar bill behind
to prevent the circuit from closing.

   SOFT DRINK CAN BOMB  AN ARTICLE FROM THE BOOK:

  THE POOR MAN'S JAMES BOND    BY KURT SAXON
 
 This is an anti-personnel bomb meant for milling crowds.  the bottom of a
soft drink can is half cut out and bent back.  a giant firecracker or other
explosive is put in and surrounded with nuts and bolts or rocks.  the fuse is
then armed with a chemical delay in a plastic drinking straw.

      ! !                            After first making sure there are no
      ! !                           children nearby, the acid or glycerine
      ! ! <-CHEMICAL INGITER        is put into the straw and the can is set
   ---- ----                        down by a tree or wall where it will not
   !  !1!  !                        be knocked over.  the delay should give
   ! ===== !                        you three to five minutes.  it will then
   !* ! ! "!                        have a shattering effect on passersby.
   !  ! !  !
   !  ! !  !<- BIG FIRECRACKER
   !  ! !% !
   !  ==== !
   !       !
   !   #   !                          It is hardly likely that anyone would
   !  ---  !                         pick up and drink from someone else's
   !   !   !     <- NUTS & BOLTS     soft drink can.  but if such a crude
   !   /   !                         person should try to drink from your
   !       !                         bomb he would break a nasty habit
   ---------                         fast!


                  Pyro Book ][   by Capt Hack  and Grey Wolf
 
TIME DELAYED CHEMICAL FUSE
 
1) Put 1 teaspoon full of of potassium permanganate in a tin can.
2) add a few drops of glycerine
3) wait 3-4 min.
4) get the hell out..  the stuff will smoke, then burst into flame..

** potasium permanganate stains like iodine but worse [it's purple]
** the reaction will spatter a bit ->it can be messy...
** it doesn't matter if the amounts are uneven [ie.  1 part to 3 parts]

 
EXPLOSIVES AND INCENDIARIES by THE RESEARCHER

INTRODUCTION: The trouble with text books on chemistry and explosives is the
attitude with which they are written.  They don't say, "Now I know you would
like to blow holy hell out of something just for the fun of it so here is how
to whip up something in your kitchen to do it".  They tell you how Dupont does
it or how the anchient Chinese did it but not how you can do it with the
resourses and materials available to you.

 Even army manuals on field expedient explosives are almost useless because
they are just outlines written with the understanding that an instructor is
going to fill in the blanks.  It is a fun game to search out the materials
that can be put together to make something go "boom".  You can find what you
need in grocery stores, hardware stores, and farm supplies.  An interesting
point to remember is that it is much easier to make a big e explosion than a
small one.  It is very difficult for a home experimenter to make a
firecracker, but a bomb capable of blowing the walls out of a building is
easy.

                           HOW TO MAKE ROCKET FUEL

   This is easy to make and fun to play with.  Mix equal parts by volume
Potassium or Sodium Nitrate and granulated sugar.  Pour a big spoonful of
this into a pile. Stick a piece of blackmatch fuse into it; light; and step
back.  This is also a very hot incendiary.  A little imagination will suggest
a lot of experiments for this.

                             ANOTHER ROCKET FUEL

 Mix equal parts by volume of zinc dust and sulfur.  Watch out if you
experiment with this.  It goes off in a sudden flash.  It is not a powerful
explosive, but is violent stuff even when not confined because of its fast
burning rate.

  --- As I continue from this point some of the ingredients are going to be
harder to get without going through a chemical supply.  I try to avoid this.
I happen to know that B. Prieser Scientific (local to my area) has been
instructed by the police to send them the names of anyone buying chemicals in
certain combinations.  For example, if a person were to buy Sulfuric acid,
Nitric acid and Toluene (the makings for TNT) in one order the police would be
notified.  I will do the best I can to tell you how to make the things you
need from commonly available materials, but I don't want to leave out
something really good because you might have to scrounge for an ingredient.  I
am guessing you would prefer it that way.


                 HOW TO MAKE AN EXPLOSIVE FROM COMMON MATCHES

  Pinch the head near the bottom with a pair of wire cutters to break it up;
then use the edges of the cutters to scrape off the loose material.  It gets
easy with practice.  You can do this while watching TV and collect enough for
a bomb without dying of boredom.
    Once you have a good batch of it, you can load it into a pipe instead of
black powder.  Be careful not to get any in the threads, and wipe off any that
gets on the end of the pipe.  Never try to use this stuff for rocket fuel.  A
science teacher was killed that way.
      Just for fun while I'm on the subject of matches, did you know that you
can strike a safety match on a window pane? Hold a paper match between your
thumb and first finger.  With your second finger, press the head firmly
against a large window.  Very quickly, rub the match down the pane about 2
feet while maintaining the pressure.  The friction will generate enough heat
to light the match.

  Another fun trick is the match rocket.  Tightly wrap the top half of a paper
match with foil.  Set it in the top of a pop bottle at a 45 degree angle.
Hold a lighted match under the head until it ignites.  If you got it right,
the match will zip up and hit the ceiling.

 I just remembered the match guns I used to make when I was a kid.  These are
made from a bicycle spoke.  At one end of the spoke is a piece that screws
off.  Take it off and screw it on backwards.  You now have a piece of stiff
wire with a small hollow tube on one end.  Pack the material from a couple of
wooden safety matches into the tube.  Force the stem of a match into the hole.
It sould fit very tightly.  Hold a lighted match under the tube until it gets
hot enough to ignite the powder.  It goes off with a bang.


           HOW TO MAKE CONCENTRATED SULFURIC ACID FROM BATTERY ACID

 Go to an auto supply store and ask for "a small battery acid".  This should
only cost a few dollars.  What you will get is about a gallon of dilute
sulfuric acid.  Put a pint of this into a heat resistant glass container.  The
glass pitchers used for making coffee are perfect. Do not use a metal container.

  Use an extension cord to set up a hotplate out doors.  Boil the acid until
white fumes appear.  As soon as you see the white fumes, turn off the hot
plate and let the acid cool.  Pour the now concentrated acid into a glass
container.  The container must have a glass stopper or plastic cap -- no
metal.  It must be air tight.  Otherwize, the acid will quickly absorb
moisture from the air and become diluted.  Want to know how to make a time
bomb that doesn't tick and has no wires or batteries? Hold on to your acid and
follow me into the next installment.

                   HOW TO MAKE A CHEMICAL TIME DELAY FUSE:

    To get an understanding of how this is going to work, mix up equal parts
by volume Potassium chlorate and granulated sugar.  Pour a spoonful of the
mixture in a small pile and make a depression in the top with the end of a
spoon.  Using a medicine dropper, place one drop of concentrated sulfuric acid
in the depression and step back.
     It will snap and crackle a few times and then burst into vigorous flames.
To make the fuse, cut about 2 inches off a plastic drinking straw.  Tamp a
small piece of cotton in one end.  On top of this put about an inch of the
clorate/sugar mixture.
    Now lightly tamp in about a quarter inch of either glass wool or asbestos
fibers.  Secure this with the open end up and drop in 3 or 4 drops of sulfuric
acid.  After a few minutes the acid will soak through the fibers and ignite
the mixture.
    The time delay can be controled by the amount of fiber used and by varying
how tightly it is packed.  Don't use cotton for this.  The acid will react
with cotton and become weakened in the process.  By punching a hole in the
side of the straw, a piece of blackmatch or other fuse can be inserted and
used to set off the device of your choice.

     Potassium chlorate was very popular with the radical underground.  It can
be used to make a wide variety of explosives and incendiaries, some of them
extremely dangerous to handle.  The radicals lost several people that way.
But, don't worry.  I am not going to try to protect you from yourself.  I have
decided to tell all.  I will have more to say about Potassium chlorate, but
for now, let's look at a couple of interesting electric fuses.


                                PEROXYACETONE

 PEROXYACETONE IS EXTREMELY FLAMMABLE AND HAS BEEN REPORTED TO BE SHOCK
 SENSITIVE.

MATERIALS-
 4ML ACETONE
 4ML 30% HYDROGEN PEROXIDE
 4 DROPS CONC.  HYDROCHLORIC ACID
 150MM TEST TUBE

Add 4ml acetone and 4ml hydrogen peroxide to the test tube.  then add 4 drops
concentrated hydrochloric acid. In 10-20 minutes a white solid should begin to
appear. if no change is observed, warm the test tube in a water bath at 40
celsius. Allow the reaction to continue for two hours.  Swirl the slurry and
filter it. Leave out on filter paper to dry for at least two hours.  To
ignite, light a candle tied to a meter stick and light it (while staying at
least a meter away) .

I would like to give credit to a book by shakashari entitled "Chemical
demonstrations" for a few of the precise amounts of chemicals in some
experiments.
                    ...ZAPHOD BEEBLEBROX/MPG!


THE CHEMIST'S CORNER #2:    HOUSEHOLD CHEMICALS, BY ZAPHOD BEEBLEBROX/MPG

 This article deals with instructions on how to do some interesting
experiments with common household chemicals.  Some may or may not work
depending on the concentration of certain chemicals in different areas and
brands.  I would suggest that the person doing these experiments have some
knowledge of chemistry, especially for the more dangerous experiments.

 I am not responsible for any injury or damage caused by people using this
information.  It is provided for use by people knowledgable in chemistry who
are interested in such experiments and can safely handle such experiments.

I.  A LIST OF HOUSEHOLD CHEMICALS AND THEIR COMPOSITION

VINEGAR: 3-5% ACETIC ACID              BAKING SODA: SODIUM BICARBONATE
DRAIN CLEANERS: SODIUM HYDROXIDE       SANI-FLUSH: 75% SODIUM BISULFATE
AMMONIA WATER: AMMONIUM HYDROXIDE      CITRUS FRUIT: CITRIC ACID
TABLE SALT: SODIUM CHLORIDE            SUGAR: SUCROSE
MILK OF MAGNESIA-MAGNESIUM HYDROXIDE   TINCTURE OF IODINE- 4% IODINE
RUBBING ALCOHOL- 70 OR 99% (DEPENDS ON BRAND) ISOPROPYL ALCOHOL (DO NOT DRINK!)


                           GENERATING CHLORINE GAS

 This is slightly more dangerous than the other two experiments, so you
shouild know what you're doing before you try this...

 Ever wonder why ammonia bottles always say 'do not mix with chlorine bleach',
and visa-versa? That's because if you mix ammonia water with ajax or something
like it, it will give off chlorine gas. To capture it, get a large bottle and
put ajax in the bottom.  then pour some ammonia down into the bottle.  since
the c hlorine is heavier than air, it will stay down in there unless you use
large amounts of either ajax or ammonia (don't!).


                            CHLORINE + TURPENTINE

 Take a small cloth or rag and soak it in turpentine. Quickly drop it into the
bottle of chlorine. It should give off a lot of black smoke and probably start
burning...

                           GENERATING HYDROGEN GAS

 To generate hydrogen, all you need is an acid and a metal that will react
with that acid.  Try vinegar (acetic acid) with zinc, aluminum, magnesium,
etc.  You can collect hydrogen in something if you note that it is lighter
than air....  light a small amount and it burns with a small *pop*.

  Another way of creating hydrogen is by the electrolysis of water.  this
involve sseperating water (H2O) into hydrogen and oxygen by an electric
current. To do this, you need a 6-12 volt battery (or a DC transformer), two
test tubes, a large bowl, two carbon electrodes (take them out of an unworking
6-12 volt battery), and table salt. Dissolve the salt in a large bowl full of
water. Submerge the two test tubes in the water and put the electrodes inside
them, with the mouth of the tube aiming down.  Connect the battery to some
wire going down to the electrodes.

   This will work for a while, but chlorine will be generated along with the
oxygen which will corrode your copper wires leading to the carbon
electrodes...  (the table salt is broken up into chlorine and sodium ions, the
chlorine comes off as a gas with oxygen while sodium reacts with the water to
form sodium hydroxide....).  therefore, if you can get your hands on some
sulfuric acid, use it instead.  it will not affect the reaction other than
making the water conduct electricity.

WARNING:  DO NOT use a transformer that outputs AC current! Not only is AC
         inherently more dangerous than DC, it also produces both Hydrogen and
         Oxygen at each electrode.


                             HYRDOGEN + CHLORINE

 Take the test tube of hydrogen and cover the mouth with your thumb. Keep it
inverted, and bring it near the bottle of chlorine (not one that has reacted
with turpentine).  Say "goodbye test tube", and drop it into the bottle.  The
hydrogen and chlorine should react and possibly explode (depending on purity
and amount of each gas).  An interesting thing about this is they will not
react if it is dark and no heat or other energy is around. When a light is
turned on, enough energy is present to cause them to react...

                            PREPARATION OF OXYGEN

    Get some hydrogen peroxide (from a drug store) and manganese dioxide (from
a battery- it's a black powder).  Mix the two in a bottle, and they give off
oxygen. If the bottle is stoppered, pressure will build up and shoot it off.

     Try lighting a wood splint and sticking it (when only glowing) into the
bottle. The oxygen will make it burst into flame. The oxygen will allow things
to burn better...

                                    IODINE

   Tincture of iodine contains mainly alcohol and a little iodine.  To
seperate them, put the tincture of iodine in a metal lid to a bottle and heat
it over a candle.  Have a stand holding another metal lid directly over the
tincture (about 4-6 inches above it) with ice on top of it.  The alcohol
should evaporate, and the iodine should sublime, but should reform iodine
crystals on the cold metal lid directly above.  If this works (I haven't
tried), you can use the iodine along with household ammonia to form nitrogen
triiodide.
                                            ...ZAPHOD BEEBLEBROX/MPG!

   I have found that Pool Chlorine tablets with strong household ammonia react
to produce LOTS of chlorine gas and heat... also mixing the tablets with
rubbing alcohol produces heat, a different (and highly flammable) gas, and
possibly some sort of acid (it eats away at just about anything it touches)

                                        David Richards


                                  TRIPWIRES
         by The Mortician

    Well first of all I reccommend that you read the file on my board about
landmines...  If you can't then here is the concept.

  You can use an m-80,h-100, blockbuster or any other type of explosive that
will light with a fuse. Now the way this works is if you have a 9 volt
battery, get either a solar igniter (preferably) or some steel wool you can
create a remote ignition system.  What you do it set up a schematic like this.

  ------------------>+ batery
 steel ||          ->- batery
 wool ||            /
 :==:--- <--fuse    \
  ||                /
  ---- spst switch--\

   So when the switch is on the currnet will flow through the steel wool or
igniter and heat up causing the fuse to light.
  Note: For use with steel wool try it first and get a really thin piece of
wire and pump the current through it to make sure it will heat up to light the
explosive.

   Now the thing to do is plant your explosive wherever you want it to be,bury
it and cover the wires.  Now take a fishing line (about 20 lb. test) and tie
one end to a secure object.  Have your switch secured to something and make a
loop on the other end on the line. Put the loop around the switch such that
when pulled it will pull the switch and set off the explosive.

   To ignite the explosive...  The thing to do is to experiment with this and
find your best method...  Let me know on any good kills, or new techniques...
On my board... (201)376-4462


  BOOBY TRAP TRIP WIRES......      BY Vlad Tepes (of Chgo C64 fame)

   Here is a method for constructing boobytraps which I personally invented,
and which I have found to work better than any other type of release booby
trap.

    There are many possible variations on this design, but the basic premise
remains the same. What you'll need:

  3-4 nails each 2 inches long and soft enough to
      bend easily (galvanized iron works well)
    6 feet of wire or fishing line
 5-15 feet of strong string or rope
    1 really sick mind.

    Hammer two of the nails into the trunk of a tree (about one inch apart) so
they form a horizontal line. They should be angled slightly upward, about 30
degrees.

    Bend each nail Downward about one inch out from the trunk. Take your
nefarious device (say a small rock suspended in a tree) and rig a rope or
string so the line comes DOWN towards the two nails. Tie a loop in the string
so the loop *just* reaches between the two nails, and pass a third nail
between the two nails with the loop around this nail between the two others
(see diagrams)

      bent nails
     /                        || ^ slight upward tension
# /\                          ||
#/                         @  ||    @         ( @ are the two nails, head on)
#                  ------!----()------
#          trip wire
 \                     /
Trunk                 third nail

    Now tie one end of the fishing line to the head of the third nail, and the
other end around another tree or to a nail (in another tree, a root or a
stump etc).

    When somebody pulls on the trip wire, the nail will be pulled out and your
sick creation will be released to do it's damage (try tying it to a firing
pin).

  There are several possible variations. More than one trip wire can be
attached to the same nail, or this device can be used to arm a second trip
wire. Large wire staples or hook and eye loops can be used to replace the two
bent nails.

     A more interesting variation uses a straight piece of metal rod with a
hole at each end, or with a short wire loop welded to each end. One end is
attached to the tripwire, the other is attached to a spring.

               ||
*/\/\/\/\/\-===()=======--------------------------------------*
  SPRING     BOLT            Trip wire

    With this design the loop will be released if the tripwire is pulled or if
it is broken. The spring should be under moderate tension and well oiled.


                            Improvised Explosives
Gelatine Explosive from Anti-Freeze         Written by: The Lich

CAUTION: THIS FORMULA ASSUMES THAT THE MAKER HAS NO QUALMS ABOUT KILLING
         HIS/HER SELF IN THE PROCESS.

 This explosive is almost the same as the nitro-gelatin plastique explosive
exept that it is supple and pliable to -10 to -20 deg. C

   Antifreeze is easier to obtain than glycerine and is usually cheaper.  It
needs to be freed of water before the manufacture and this can be done by
treating it with calcium chloride until a specific gravity of 1.12 @ o deg.
C.  or 1.11 @ 20 deg.  C.  is obtained.

    This can be done by adding calcium chloride to the antifreeze and checking
with a hydrometer and continue to add calcium chloride until the proper
reading is obtained.  The antifreeze is then filtered to remove the calcium
chloride from the liquid.  This explosive is superior to nitro-gelatin in that
it is easier to collidon the IMR smokeless powder into the explosive and that
the 50/50 ether ethyl alcohol can be done away with.  It is superior in that
the formation of the collidon is done very rapidly by the nitroethelene
glycol.

   It's detonation properties are practically the same as the nitro-gelatine.
Like the nitro-gelatine it is highly flammable and if caught on fire the
chances are good that the flame will progress to detonation.  In this
explosive as in nitro-gelatine the addition of 1% sodium carbonate is a good
idea to reduce the chance of recidual acid being present in the final
explosive.  The following is a slightly different formula than nitro-gelatine:

Nitro-glycol 75%  Guncotton (IMR) 6%  Potassium Nitrate  14%   Flour 5%

    In this process the 50/50 step is omitted.  Mix the potassium nitrate with
the nitro-glycol.  Remember that this nitro-glycol is just as sensitive to
shock as is nitroglycerin.
    The next step is to mix in the baking flour and sodium carbonate. Mix
these by kneading with gloved hands until the mixture is uniform.  This
kneading should be done gently and slowly.  The mixture should be uniform when
the IMR smokeless powder is added.  Again this is kneaded to uniformity.  Use
this explosive as soon as possible.

    If it must be stored, store in a cool, dry place (0-10 deg.  C.).  This
explosive should detonate at 7600-7800 m/sec..  These two explosives are very
powerful and should be sensitive to a #6 blasting cap or equivelent.

    These explosives are dangerous and should not be made unless the
manufacturer has had experience with this type compound.  The foolish and
ignorant may as well forget these explosives as they won't live to get to use
them.
    Don't get me wrong, these explosives have been manufactured for years with
an amazing record of safety.  Millions of tons of nitroglycerine have been
made and used to manufacture dynamite and explosives of this nature with very
few mis haps.
   Nitroglycerin and nitroglycol will kill and their main victims are the
stupid and foolhardy.  Before manufacturing these explosives take a drop of
nitroglycerin and soak into a small piece of filter paper and place it on an
anvil.
  Hit this drop with a hammer and don't put any more on the anvil.  See what I
mean! This explosive compound is not to be taken lightly.  If there are any
doubts DON'T.

Improvised Explosives Plastique Explosive from Aspirin    by: The Lich

 This explosive is a phenol dirivative.  It is HIGHLY toxic and explosive
compounds made from picric acid are poisonous if inhaled, ingested, or handled
and absor- bed through the skin.  The toxicity of this explosive restrict's
its use due to the fact that over exposure in most cases causes liver and
kidney failure and sometimes death if immediate treatment is not obtained.

 This explosive is a cousin to T.N.T.  but is more powerful than it's cousin.
It is the first explosive used militarily and was adopted in 1888 as an
artillery shell filler.  Originally this explosive was derived from coal tar
but thanks to modern chemistry you can make this explosive easily in
approximately three hours from acetylsalicylic acid (aspirin purified).

 This procedure involves dissolving the acetylsalicylic acid in warm sulfuric
acid and adding sodium or potassium nitrate which nitrates the purified
aspirin and the whole mixture drowned in water and filtered to obtain the
final product.  This explosive is called trinitrophenol.  Care should be
taken to ensure that this explosive is stored in glass containers.  Picric
acid will form dangerous salts when allowed to contact all metals exept tin
and aluminum.  These salts are primary explosive and are super sensitive.
They also will cause the detonation of the picric acid.

 To make picric acid obtain some aspirin.  The cheaper brands work best but
buffered brands should be avoided.  Powder these tablets to a fine
consistancy. To extract the acetylsalicylic acid from this powder place this
powder in methyl alcohol and stir vigorously.  Not all of the powder will
dissolve.  Filter this powder out of the alcohol.  Again wash this powder that
was filtered out of the alcohol with more alcohol but with a lesser amount
than the first extraction.  Again filter the remaining powder out of the
alcohol.  Combine the now clear alcohol and allow it to evaporate in a pyrex
dish.  When the alcohol has evaporated there will be a surprising amount of
crystals in the bottom of the pyrex dish.

 Take forty grams of these purified acetylsalicylic acid crystals and
dissolve them in 150 ml.  of sulfuric acid (98%, specify gravity 1.8) and heat
to diss- olve all the crystals.  This heating can be done in a common electric
frying pan with the thermostat set on 150 deg.  F.  and filled with a good
cooking oil.

When all the crystals have dissolved in the sulfuric acid take the beaker,
that you've done all this dissolving in (600 ml.), out of the oil bath.  This
next step will need to be done with a very good ventilation system (it is a
good idea to do any chemistry work such as the whole procedure and any
procedure on this disk with good ventilation or outside).  Slowly start adding
58 g.  of sodium nitrate or 77 g.  of potassium nitrate to the acid mixture in
the beaker very slowly in small portions with vigorous stirring.  A red gas
(nitrogen trioxide) will be formed and this should be avoided.

  The mixture is likely to foam up and the addition should be stopped until
the foaming goes down to prevent the overflow of the acid mixture in the
beaker.  When the sodium or potassium nitrate has been added the mixture is
allowed to cool somewhat (30- 40 deg.  C.). The solution should then be dumped
slowly into twice it's volume of crushed ice and water.  The brilliant yellow
crystals will form in the water. These should be filtered out and placed in
200 ml.  of boiling distilled water. This water is allowed to cool and then
the crystals are then filtered out of the water.  These crystals are a very,
very pure trinitrophenol.  These crystals are then placed in a pyrex dish and
places in an oil bath and heated to 80 deg. C.  and held there for 2 hours.
This temperature is best maintained and checked with a thermometer.

  The crystals are then powdered in small quantities to a face powder
consistency.  These powdered crystals are then mixed with 10% by weight wax
and 5% vaseline which are heated to melting temperature and poured into the
crystals.  The mixing is best done by kneading together with gloved hands.
This explosive should have a useful plsticity range of 0-40 deg.  C..  The
detonation velocity should be around 7000 m/sec..  It is toxic to handle but
simply made from common ingredients and is suitable for most demolition work
requiring a moderately high detonation velocity.  It is very suitable for
shaped charges and some steel cutting charges.  It is not as good an explosive
as C-4 or other R.D.X.  based explosives but it is much easier to make.  Again
this explosive is very toxic and should be treated with great care.

  AVOID HANDLING BARE-HANDED, BREATHING DUST AND FUMES, AVOID ANY CHANCE OF
INGESTION. AFTER UTENSILS ARE USED FOR THE MANUFACTURE OF THIS EXPLOSIVE
RETIRE THEM FROM THE KITCHEN AS THE CHANCE OF POISONING IS NOT WORTH THE RISK.
THIS EXPLOSIVE, IF MANUFACTURED AS ABOVE, AHOULD BE SAFE IN STORAGE BUT WITH
ANY HOMEMADE EXPLOSIVE STORAGE OS NOT RECOMENDED AND EXPLOSIVES SHOULD BE MADE
UP AS NEEDED.


Improvised Explosives Plastique Explosive from Bleach     by: The Lich

 This explosive is a potassium chlorate explosive.  This explosive and
explosives of similar composition were used in World War II as the main
explosive filler in gernades, land mines, and mortar used by French, German,
and other forces involoved in that conflict.  These explosives are relatively
safe to manufacture.

  One should strive to make sure these explosives are free of sulfur,
sulfides, and picric acid.  The presence of these compounds result in mixtures
that are or can become highly sensitive and possibly decompose ex- plosively
while in storage.  The manufacture of this explosive from bleach is given as
just an expediant method.  This method of manufacturing potassium chlorate is
not economical due to the amount of energy used to boil the solution and cause
the 'dissociation' reaction to take place.  This procedure does work and
yields a relatively pure and a sulfur/sulfide free product.  These explosives
are very cap sensitive and require only a #3 cap for instigating detonation.

  To manufacture potassium chlorate from bleach (5.25% sodium hypochlorite
solution) obtain a heat source (hot plate etc.) a battery hydrometer, a large
pyrex or enameled steel container (to weigh chemicals), and some potassium
chloride (sold as salt substitute).  Take one gallon of bleach, place it in
the container and begin heating it.  While this solution heats, weigh out 63
g.  potassium chloride and add this to the bleach being heated. Bring this
solution to a boil and boiled until when checked by a hydrometer the reading
is 1.3 (if a battery hydrometer is used it should read full charge).

 When the reading is 1.3 take the solution and let it cool in the refrigerator
until it's between room temperature and 0 deg.  C..  Filter out the crystals
that have formed and save them.  Boil the solution again until it reads 1.3 on
the hydrometer and again cool the solution.  Filter out the crystals that have
formed and save them.  Boil this solution again and cool as before.

  Filter and save the crystals.  Take these crystals that have been saved and
mix them with distilled water in the following proportions: 56 g.  per 100 ml.
distilled water.  Heat this solution until it boils and allow it to cool.
Filter the solution and save the crystals that form upon cooling.  The process
if purifi- cation is called fractional crystalization.  These crystals should
be relatively pure potassium chlorate.

 Powder these to the consistency of face powder (400 mesh) and heat gently to
drive off all moisture.  Melt five parts vasoline and five parts wax.
Dissolve this in white gasoline (camp stove gasoline) and pour this liquid on
90 parts potassium chlorate (the crystals from the above operation) in a
plastic bowl. Knead this liquid into the potassium chlorate until immediately
mixed.  Allow all the gasoline to evaporate.  Place this explosive in a cool,
dry place.  Avoid friction, sulfur, sulfide, and phosphorous compounds.

     This explosive is best molded to the desired shape and density
(1.3g./cc.) and dipped in wax to water proof.  These block type charges
guarantee the highest detonation velocity.  This explosive is really not
suited to use in shaped charge applications due to its relatively low
detonation velocity.  It is comparable to 40% ammonia dynamite and can be
considered the same for the sake of charge computation.

    If the potassium chlorate is bought and not made it is put into the
manufacture pro- cess in the powdering stages preceding the addition of the
wax/vaseline mix- ture.  This explosive is bristant and powerful.  The
addition of 2-3% aluminum powder increases its blast effect.  Detonation
velocity is 3300 m/sec..


Plastique Explosives From Swimming Pool Chlorinating Compound    By the Lich

 This explosive is a chlorate explosive from bleach.  This method of
production of potassium or sodium chlorate is easier and yields a more pure
product than does the plastique explosive from bleach process.

  In this reaction the H.T.H. (calcium hypochlorite CaC10) is mixed with water
and heated with either sodium chloride (table salt, rock salt) or potassium
chloride (salt substitute).  The latter of these salts is the salt of choice
due to the easy crystalization of the potassium chlorate.

  This mixture will need to be boiled to ensure complete reaction of the
ingredients.  Obtain some H.T.H.  swimming pool chlorination compound or
equivilant (usually 65% calcium hypochlorite).  As with the bleach process
mentioned earlier the reaction described below is also a dissociation
reaction.  In a large pyrex glass or enamled steel container place 1200g.
H.T.H. and 220g.  potassium chloride or 159g.  sodium chloride.  Add enough
boiling water to dissolve the powder and boil this solution.  A chalky
substance (calcium chloride) will be formed.  When the formation of this
chalky substance is no longer formed the solution is filtered while boiling
hot.  If potassium chloride was used potassium chlorate will be formed.

    This potassium chlorate will drop out or crystalize as the clear liquid
left after filtering cools.  These crystals are filtered out when the solution
reaches room temperature.  If the sodium chloride salt was used this clear
filtrate (clear liquid after filter- ation) will need to have all water
evaporated.  This will leave crystals which should be saved.

    These crystals should be heated in a slightly warm oven in a pyrex dish to
drive off all traces of water (40-75 deg.  C.).  These crystals are ground to
a very fine powder (400 mesh).

    If the sodium chloride salt is used in the initial step the crystalization
is much more time consuming.  The potassium chloride is the salt to use as the
resulting product will crystalize out of the solution as it cools.  The
powdered and completely dry chlorate crystals are kneaded together with
vaseline in a plastic bowl.  ALL CHLORATE BASED EXPLOSIVES ARE SENSITIVE TO
FRICTION AND SHOCK AND THESE SHOULD BE AVOIDED.  If sodium chloride is used in
this explosive it will have a tendancy to cake and has a slightly lower
detonation velocity.

  This explosive is composed of the following:

 potassium/sodium chlorate 90%        vaseline  10%

   Simply pour the powder into a plastic baggy and knead in the vaseline
carefully. this explosive (especially if the Sodium Chlorate variation is
used) should not be exposed to water or moisture.

 The detonation velocity can be raised to a slight extent by the addition of
2-3% aluminum substituted for 2-3% of the vaseline.  This addition of this
aluminum will give the explosive a bright flash if set off at night which will
ruin night vision for a short while.  The detonation velocity of this
explosive is approximately 3200 m/sec.  for the potassium salt and 2900 m/sec.
for the sodium salt based explosive.

Addendum 4/12/91:

   It was claimed above that this explosive degrades over time. I would assume
that this occurs due to the small amount of water present in the vaseline, and
that a different type of fuel would be better than the vaseline.


ASSORTED NASTIES:

                                  Sweet-Oil
 In this one you open there hood and pour some honey in their oil spout.  if
you have time you might remover the oil plug first and drain some of the oil
out.  I have tried this one but wasn't around to see the effects but I am sure
that I did some damage.

                                   Slow Air
 Ok, sneak up the victims car and poke a small hole somewhere in 2 of his/her
tires.  They only have 1 spare.  Now if the hole is small but there then there
tire will go flat some where on the road.  You could slice the tire so this is
blows out on the road wih a razor blade.  Cut a long and fairly deep (don't
cut a hole all the way through) and peel a little bit of the rubber back and
cut that off.  Now very soon there tires will go flat or a possible blow out
at a high speed if your lucky.

                               Vanishing Paint
 Spread a little gas or paint thiner on the victims car and this will make his
paint run and fade.  Vodka will eat the paint off and so will a little 190.
Eggs work great on paint if they sit there long enough.

                                 Loose Wheel
 Loosen the lugs on you victums tires so that they will soon fall off.  This
can really fuck some one up if they are cruising when the tire falls off.

                                 Dual Neutral
   This name sucks but pull the 10 bolt or what ever they have there off.  (On
the real wheels, in the middle of the axle) Now throw some screws, blots, nuts
and assorted things in there and replace the cover. At this point you could
chip some of the teeth off the gears.

                                  Un-Midaser
 Crawl under there car with a rachet and losen all the nuts on their exhaust
so that it hangs low and will fall off soon. This method also works on
transmissions but is a little harder to get all bolts off, but the harder you
work the more you fuck them over.


                                 LAUGHING GAS

Learn how to make laughing gas from ammonium nitrate. Laughing gas was one of
the earliest anaesthetics.  After a little while of inhaling the gas the
patient became so happy [ain't life great?] he couldn't keep from laughing.
Finally he would drift off to a pleasant sleep.

   Some do-it-yourselfers have died while taking laughing gas.  This is
because they has generated it through plastic bags while their heads were
inside. They were simply suffocating but were too bombed out to realize it.
   The trick is to have a plastic clothes bag in which you generate a lot of
the gas.  Then you stop generating the gas and hold a small opening of the bag
under your nose, getting plenty of oxygen in the meantime.  Then, Whee!
  To make it you start with ammonium nitrate bought from a chemical supply
house or which you have purified with 100% rubbing or wood alcohol.

  First, dissolve a quantity of ammonium nitrate in some water.  Then you
evaporate the water over the stove, while stirring, until you have a heavy
brine.  When nearly all the moisture is out it should solidify instantly when
a drop is put on an ice cold metal plate.

  When ready, dump it all out on a very cold surface.  After a while, break
it up and store it in a bottle.

   A spoonful is put into a flask with a one-hole stopper, with a tube leading
into a big plastic bag.  The flask is heated with an alcohol lamp.

   When the temperature in the flask reaches 480 F the gas will generate.  If
white fumes appear the heat should be lowered as the stuff explodes at 600 F.

  When the bag is filled, stop the action and get ready to turn on.

CAUTION:  N2O supplants oxygen in your blood, but you don't realize it.  It's
        easy to die from N2O because you're suffocating and your breathing
        reflex doesn't know it.  Do not put your head in a plastic bag
        (duhh...) because you will cheerfully choke to death.

                              PIPE OR "ZIP" GUNS

    Commonly known as "zip" guns, guns made from pipe have been used for years
by juvenile punks.  Today's Militants   make them just for the hell of it or
to shoot once in an   assassination or riot and throw away if there is any
danger of apprehension.

    They can be used many times but with some, a length of dowel is needed to
force out the spent shell.

    There are many variations but the illustration shows the basic design.

    First, a wooden stock is made and a groove is cut for the barrel to rest
in.  The barrel is then taped securely to the stock with a good, strong
tape.

    The trigger is made from galvanized tin.  A slot is punched in the trigger
flap to hold a roofing nail, which is wired or soldered onto the flap.  The
trigger is bent and nailed to the stock on both sides.

    The pipe is a short length of one-quarter inch steel gas or water pipe
with a bore that fits in a cartridge, yet keeps the cartridge rim from passing
through the pipe.

    The cartridge is put in the pipe and the cap, with a hole bored through
it, is screwed on.  Then the trigger is slowly released to let the nail pass
through the hole and   rest on the primer.

    To fire, the trigger is pulled back with the left hand and held back with
the thumb of the right hand.  The gun is then aimed and the thumb releases the
trigger and the thing actually fires.

    Pipes of different lengths and diameters are found in any hardware store.
All caliber bullets, from the .22 to the .45 are used in such guns.

    Some zip guns are made from two or three pipes nested within each other.
For instance, a .22 shell will fit snugly into a length of a car's copper gas
line. Unfortunatey, the copper is too weak to withstand the pressure of the
firing.  So the length of gas line is spread   with glue and pushed into a
wider length of pipe.  This is   spread with glue and pushed into a length of
steel pipe with threads and a cap.

    Using this method, you can accomodate any cartridge, even a rifle shell.
The first size of pipe for a rifle   shell accomodates the bullet.  The second
accomodates its wider powder chamber.

    A 12-gauge shotgun can be made from a 3/4 inch steel pipe.  If you want to
comply with the gun laws, the barrel should be at least eighteen inches long.

    Its firing mechanism is the same as that for the pistol. It naturally has
a longer stock and its handle is lengthened into a rifle butt.  Also, a small
nail is driven half way into each side of the stock about four inches in the
front of the trigger.  The rubber band is put over one nail and   brought
around the trigger and snagged over the other nail.

    In case you actually make a zip gun, you should test it before firing it
by hand.  This is done by first tying the gun to a tree or post, pointed to
where it will do no damage.  Then a string is tied to the trigger and you go
off several yards.  The string is then pulled back and let go. If the barrel
does not blow up, the gun is (probably) safe to fire by hand. Repeat firings
may weaken the barrel, so NO zip gun can be considered "safe" to use.


Astrolite and Sodium Chlorate Explosives By: Future Spy & The Fighting Falcon

Note: Information on the Astrolite Explosives were taken from the book
 'Two Component High Explosive Mixtures' By Desert Pub'l

Some of the chemicals used are somewhat toxic, but who gives a fuck! Go ahead!
I won't even bother mentioning 'This information is for enlightening purposes
only'! I would love it if everyone made a gallon of astrolite and blew their
fucking school to kingdom scum!

                                  Astrolite

The astrolite family of liquid explosives were products of rocket propellant
research in the '60's.  Astrolite A-1-5 is supposed to be the world's most
powerful non-nuclear explosive -at about 1.8 to 2 times more powerful than
TNT. Being more powerful it is also safer to handle than TNT (not that it
isn't safe in the first place) and Nitroglycerin.

                                 Astrolite G
"Astrolite G is a clear liquid explosive especially designed to produce very
high detonation velocity, 8,600MPS (meters/sec.), compared with 7,700MPS for
nitroglycerin and 6,900MPS for TNT...In addition, a very unusual
characteristic is that it the liquid explosive has the ability to be absorbed
easily into the ground while remaining detonatable...In field tests, Astrolite
G has remained detonatable for 4 days in the ground, even when the soil was
soaked due to rainy weather" know what that means?....Astrolite Dynamite!

              To make (mix in fairly large container & outside)
    Two parts by weight of ammonium nitrate mixed with one part by weight
'anhydrous' hydrazine, produces Astrolite G...Simple enough eh? I'm sure that
the 2:1 ratio is not perfect,and that if you screw around with it long enough,
that you'll find a better formula.  Also, dunno why the book says 'anhydrous'
hydrazine, hydrazine is already anhydrous...

    Hydrazine is the chemical you'll probably have the hardest time getting
hold of. Uses for Hydrazine are: Rocket fuel, agricultural chemicals (maleic
hydra-zide), drugs (antibacterial and antihypertension), polymerization
catalyst, plating metals on glass and plastics, solder fluxes, photographic
developers, diving equipment.  Hydrazine is also the chemical you should be
careful with.

                              Astrolite A/A-1-5
Mix 20% (weight) aluminum powder to the ammonium nitrate, and then mix with
hydrazine.  The aluminum powder should be 100 mesh or finer.  Astrolite A has
a detonation velocity of 7,800MPS.

                                 Misc.  info
You should be careful not to get any of the astrolite on you,if it happens
though, you should flush the area with water.  Astrolite A&G both should be
able to be detonated by a #8 blasting cap.


                           Sodium Chlorate Formulas

Sodium Chlorate is similar to potassium chlorate,and in most cases can be a
substitute.  Sodium chlorate is also more soluble in water.  You can find
sodium chlorate at Channel or any hardware/home improvement store.  It is used
in blowtorches and you can get about 3lbs for about $6.00.

                          Sodium Chlorate Gunpowder

65% sodium chlorate, 22% charcoal, 13% sulfur, sprinkle some graphite on top.

                                 Rocket Fuel
6 parts sodium chlorate mixed *THOROUGHLY* with 5 parts rubber cement.

                      Rocket Fuel 2 (better performance)

50% sodium chlorate, 35% rubber cement ('One-Coat' brand),
10% epoxy resin hardener, 5% sulfur

You may want to add more sodium chlorate depending on the purity you are using.

                              Incendiary Mixture
55% aluminum powder (atomized), 45% sodium chlorate, 5% sulfur

                                Impact Mixture
50% red phosphorus, 50% sodium chlorate

Unlike potassium chlorate,sodium chlorate won't explode spontaneously when
mix- ed with phosphorus.  It has to be hit to be detonated.

                               Filler explosive
85% sodium chlorate, 10% vaseline, 5% aluminum powder

                            Nitromethane formulas
I thought that I might add this in since it's similar to Astrolite.

Nitromethane (CH3NO2)              specific gravity:1.139
flash point:95f                    auto-ignite:785f

Derivation: reaction of methane or propane with nitric acid under pressure.
Uses:       Rocket fuel; solvent for cellulosic compounds, polymers, waxes,
fats, etc.

To be detonated with a #8 cap, add:

1) 95% nitromethane + 5% ethylenediamine 2) 94% nitromethane + 6% aniline

Power output: 22-24% more powerful than TNT.  Detonation velocity of 6,200MPS.

                       Nitromethane 'solid' explosives
2 parts nitromethane, 5 parts ammonium nitrate (solid powder)

soak for 3-5 min.  when done,store in an air-tight container.  This is
supposed to be 30% more powerful than dynamite containing 60% nitro-glycerin,
and has 30% more brilliance.


            MERCURY BATTERY BOMB!      By Phucked Agent!

Materials:

1 Mercury Battery (1.5 or 1.4 V Hearing Aid), 1 working lamp with on/off 
  switch

  It is VERY SIMPLE!!! Hurray! Kids under 18 shouldn't considered try this 
  one or else they would have mercuric acid on their faces!

1.  Turn the lamp switch on to see if lite-bulb lights up.
2.  If work, leave the switch on and unplug the cord
3.  Unscrew the bulb (Dont touch the hot-spot!)
4.  Place 1 Mercury Battery in the socket and make sure that it is touching
the Hot-spot contact.
5.  Move any object or furniture - Why? There may be sparx given off!
6.  Now your favorite part, stand back and plug in cord in the socket.
7.  And you will have fun!! Like Real Party!!!


All credits go to their respective creators..

                                                -= Exodus =-
                                                        
                                                     1994
                                                     Release 4.14

