Highway radar jamming                       by The Jolly Roger

Most drivers wanting to make better time on the open road will 
invest in one of those expensive radar detectors. However, this 
device will not work against a gun type radar unit in which the 
radar signal is not present until the cop has your car in his 
sights and pulls the trigger. Then it is TOO LATE for you to slow 
down. A better method is to continuously jam any signal with a 
radar signal of your own. I have tested this idea with the 
cooperation of a local cop and found that his unit reads random 
numbers when my car approached him. It is suprisingly easy to make 
a low power radar transmitter. A nifty little semiconductor called 
a Gunn Diode will generate microwaves when supplied with the 5 to 
10 volt DC and enclosed in the correct size cavity (resonater). An 
8 to 3 terminal regulator can be used to get this voltage from a 
car's 12v system. However, the correct construction and tuning of 
the cavity is difficult without good microwave measurement 
equipment. Police radars commonly operate on the K band at 22 ghz. 
Or more often on the X band at 10.525 ghz. most microwave intruder 
alarms and motion detectors (mounted over automatic doors in 
supermarkets & banks, etc.) contain a Gunn type 
transmitter/receiver combination that transmits about 10 kilowatts 
at 10.525 ghz. These units work perfectly as jammers. If you 
cannot get one locally, write to Microwave Associates in 
Burlington, Massachusettes and ask them for info on 'Gunnplexers' 
for ham radio use. When you get the unit it may be mounted in a 
plastic box on the dash or in a weather-proff enclosure behind the 
PLASTIC grille. Switch on the power when on an open highway. The 
unit will not jam radar to the side or behind the car so don't go 
speeding past the radar trap. An interesting phenomena you will 
notice is that the drivers who are in front of you who are using 
detectors will hit their brakes as you approach large metal signs 
and bridges. Your signal is bouncing off of these objects and 
triggering their radar detectors!       HAVE FUN!
                                       -Jolly Roger-

P.S. If you are interested in this sort of thing, get a copy of 
POPULAR COMMUNICATIONS. The ads in there tell you where you can 
get all kinds of info on all kinds of neat equipment for all kinds 
of neat things!

                                              -= Exodus =- '94

