    NITRIC ACID                               -= Exodus =-  '94

       There are several ways to make this most essential of all acids for  
explosives. One method by which it could be made will be presented. Once  
again, be reminded that these methods SHOULD NOT BE CARRIED OUT!!

     Materials:                             Equipment:
     컴컴컴컴                              컴컴컴컴
     sodium nitrate or                      adjustable heat source     
     potassium nitrate
                                            retort
     distilled water
                                            ice bath
     concentrated
     sulfuric acid                          stirring rod

                                            collecting flask with stopper

1) Pour 32 milliliters of concentrated sulfuric acid into the retort.

2) Carefully weigh out 58 grams of sodium nitrate, or 68 grams of potassium
nitrate. and add this to the acid slowly.  If it all does not dissolve,
carefully stir the solution with a glass rod until it does.

3) Place the open end of the retort into the collecting flask, and place the   
collecting flask in the ice bath.

4) Begin heating the retort, using low heat.  Continue heating until liquid
begins to come out of the end of the retort.  The liquid that forms is nitric
acid.  Heat until the precipitate in the bottom of the retort is almost dry,
or until no more nitric acid is forming.  CAUTION: If the acid is headed too
strongly, the nitric acid will decompose as soon as it is formed.  This can
result in the production of highly flammable and toxic gasses that may
explode.  It is a good idea to set the above apparatus up, and then get away
from it.

     Potassium nitrate could also be obtained from store-bought black powder,
simply by dissolving black powder in boiling water and filtering out the sulfur
and charcoal. To obtain 68 g of potassium nitrate, it would be necessary to
dissolve about 90 g of black powder in about one litre of boiling water. Filter
the dissolved solution through filter paper in a funnel into a jar until the
liquid that pours through is clear. The charcoal and sulfur in black powder are
insoluble in water, and so when the solution of water is allowed to evaporate,
potassium nitrate will be left in the jar.

