    R.D.X. 2

     R.D.X., also called cyclonite, or composition C-1 (when mixed with
plasticisers) is one of the most valuable of all military explosives.  This is
because it has more than 150% of the power of T.N.T., and is much easier to
detonate.  It should not be used alone, since it can be set off by a not-too
severe shock.  It is less sensitive than mercury fulminate, or nitroglycerine,
but it is still too sensitive to be used alone.

                         NO
                           2
                          |
                          N
                         / \             RDX MOLECULE
                        /   \
                       H C   H C
                      / 2     2
                     /        |
                   O N        N--NO
                    2 \      /     2
                       \    /
                        \  /
                         CH
                           2

 R.D.X. can be made by the surprisingly simple method outlined hereafter.  It
is much easier to make in the home than all other high explosives, with the
possible exception of ammonium nitrate.

     MATERIALS                    EQUIPMENT
     ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ                    ÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄÄ
     hexamine                     500 ml beaker
       or
     methenamine                  glass stirring rod
     fuel tablets (50 g)
                                  funnel and filter paper
     concentrated
     nitric acid (550 ml)         ice bath container  (plastic bucket)

     distilled water              centigrade thermometer

     table salt                   blue litmus paper

     ice                          ammonium nitrate


1) Place the beaker in the ice bath, (see section 3.13, steps 3-4) and carefully 
   pour 550 ml of concentrated nitric acid into the beaker.

2) When the acid has cooled to below 20 degrees centigrade, add small amounts
   of the crushed fuel tablets to the beaker.  The temperature will rise, and
   it must be kept below 30 degrees centigrade, or dire consequences could
   result. Stir the mixture.

3) Drop the temperature below zero degrees centigrade, either by adding more
   ice and salt to the old ice bath, or by creating a new ice bath.  Or,
   ammonium nitrate could be added to the old ice bath, since it becomes cold
   when it is put in water. Continue stirring the mixture, keeping the
   temperature below zero degrees centigrade for at least twenty minutes

4) Pour the mixture into a litre of crushed ice.  Shake and stir the mixture,
   and allow it to melt.  Once it has melted, filter out the crystals, and
   dispose of the corrosive liquid.

5) Place the crystals into one half a litre of boiling distilled water. Filter
   the crystals, and test them with the blue litmus paper.  Repeat steps 4 and
   5 until the litmus paper remains blue.  This will make the crystals more
   stable and safe.

6) Store the crystals wet until ready for use. Allow them to dry completely
    using them. R.D.X. is not stable enough to use alone as an explosive.

7) Composition C-1 can be made by mixing 88.3% R.D.X. (by weight) with 11.1%
   mineral oil, and 0.6% lecithin. Kneed these material together in a plastic
   bag. This is one way to desensitize the explosive.

8) H.M.X. is a mixture of T.N.T. and R.D.X.; the ratio is 50/50, by weight.   
  it is not as sensitive, and is almost as powerful as straight R.D.X.

9) By adding ammonium nitrate to the crystals of R.D.X. after step 5, it
   should be possible to desensitize the R.D.X. and increase its power, since
   ammonium nitrate is very insensitive and powerful. Soduim or potassium
   nitrate could also be added; a small quantity is sufficient to stabilize
   the R.D.X.

10) R.D.X. detonates at a rate of 8550 meters/second when it is compressed to a  
   density of 1.55 g/cubic cm.

                                             -= Exodus =-
