

SMOKE BOMBS 4.14                                    -= Exodus =-


     One type of pyrotechnic device that might be employed by a terrorist in
many way would be a smoke bomb.  Such a device could conceal the getaway
route, or cause a diversion, or simply provide cover.  Such a device, were it
to produce enough smoke that smelled bad enough, could force the evacuation of
a building, for example.  Smoke bombs are not difficult to make.  Although the
military smoke bombs employ powdered white phosphorus or titanium compounds,
such materials are usually unavailable to even the most well-equipped
terrorist. Instead, he/she would have to make the smoke bomb for themselves.

     Most homemade smoke bombs usually employ some type of base powder, such
as black powder or pyrodex, to support combustion.  The base material will
burn well, and provide heat to cause the other materials in the device to
burn, but not completely or cleanly.  Table sugar, mixed with sulfur and a
base material, produces large amounts of smoke.  Sawdust, especially if it has
a small amount of oil in it, and a base powder works well also.  Other
excellent smoke ingredients are small pieces of rubber, finely ground
plastics, and many chemical mixtures.  The material in road flares can be
mixed with sugar and sulfur and a base powder produces much smoke.  Most of
the fuel-oxodizer mixtures, if the ratio is not correct, produce much smoke
when added to a base powder.  The list of possibilities goes on and on.  The
trick to a successful smoke bomb also lies in the container used.  A plastic
cylinder works well, and contributes to the smoke produced.  The hole in the
smoke bomb where the fuse enters must be large enough to allow the material to
burn without causing an explosion.  This is another plus for plastic
containers, since they will melt and burn when the smoke material ignites,
producing an opening large enough to prevent an explosion.

--SIMPLE SMOKE                           

  The following reaction should produce a fair amount of smoke.  Since this
 reaction is not all that dangerous you can use larger amounts if necessary

 6 pt. ZINC POWDER
 1 pt. SULFUR POWDER
                       Insert a red hot wire into the pile, step back.


---COLORED FLAMES

     Colored flames can often be used as a signaling device for terrorists. by
putting a ball of colored flame material in a rocket; the rocket, when the
ejection charge fires, will send out a burning colored ball.  The materials that
produce the different colors of flames appear below.

COLOR               MATERIAL                        USED IN

red                 strontium                      road flares,                  
                    salts                          red sparklers
                   (strontium
                     nitrate)

green               barium salts                   green sparklers               
                   (barium nitrate)

yellow              sodium salts                   gold sparklers                
                  (sodium nitrate)

blue                powdered copper                blue sparklers,               
                    old pennies

white               powdered magnesium             firestarters,                 
                    or aluminum                    aluminum foil

purple              potassium permanganate         purple fountains,             
                                                   treating sewage
