ripping off pop machinez by od^phreak


Ok. First of all, I have tried every single file I could find on how 
to rip off coin changers, candy machines, etc. etc. None of them worked. 
Believe me, I tried every one. I don't know if these articles were just to 
gain a better U/L D/L ratio or what but they didn't work. I have one that 
does. 										
										
This trick only works on COCA COLA machines. Don't ask me why. It has 
something to do with the validator on the machines. 				
										
										
			Take a dollar bill (as crisp as possible) and lay it 
george-side-up with our dear first prez. facing left as if you were going to 
stick it in the machine. now take some scotch tape and make 2 strips a long as 
the dollar. now take those pieces of tape and attach them to the white edge of
the dollar facing you (just the one edge). your dollar should look like this 
now.

				-----
				-   -  <---- Dollar
				-   -
				-   -
				-   -
				+---+
				|   |
				|   |  <---Strips of tape 
				|   |
				|   |

	Now take scotch tape and make bars across the two pieces of tape 
already connected to your dollar(sort of like a ladder) overlapping each one 
just a little. get down to the bottom and turn the bill over and do the same 
thing on the other side (just the ladder rungs). now take a pair of sissors 
and trim the tape to make it all even and square. now take something hard and 
run it over the tape a few times to ensure that it won't come off. (remeber 
kindergarten? put the glue on and press down hard while you count to 10?)
now you're ready. take your new and improved currency to the nearest coke 
machine with a dollar bill vindicator and insert your dollar. you have to let 
the bill go in almost until you cant hold the tape anymore (it's important to 
let the bill get in far enough for the scanner to read the dollar) and then 
whip it back out. You should hear the click of the machine and your change 
drop out. make your selection and voila! Now the cool thing is when you find 
a machine that only takes 50 cents. cause you get your coke and 50 cents!!




note: this document is for informational purposes ONLY. The author of this
article assumes no responsibility for the use or mis-use of this article.


 thank you and c-ya later

      od^Phreak
