Dear Anonymous:

I am Tony Berman or better known as root of Operation Darknet.  I am sending this to make some clarifications of the rumors or lies that pr0f_srs and ioerror have been spreading.

First I am real.  I do work for VeriSign (Symantec).  The core six individuals of #OpDarknet (vicious, arson, Mr_Gray, plumb3r, hypotenuse, and I "root" #3).  We did crack Tor's encryption to reveal 190 IP addresses of individuals using Tor for Child Pornography.  

We also were responsible the temporary shutdown of "Freedom Hosting", one of most disgusting and vile child pornography hosting companies on Tor.  

#1 - Take down of Freedom Hosting:
After arson and I was able to obtain a remote PHP shell onto Lolita City, arson and with the advice of other individuals (in the real world),  we developed "The Legion".  The script that would write the value "11100101010100100100010011" into a Lolita City's MySQL database.  Also a fork bomb of "base64_encode(serialize($_SERVER)))" would be written as text files against Lolita City's hosting account.  

The Legion was designed so it would corrupt the file structure of Freedom Hosting and also destroy the MySQL database index.  This was to the only way to Lolita City and 39 other Child Pornography websites from being accessible by pedophiles. 

From earlier timing analysis, we realized due to a 2006 change in the Tor hidden service design, it was very difficult to determine the public IP of Freedom Hosting.  We did not have NSA level resources to pull the timing analysis off to determine an exact location.

#2 - The mysterious Tor Button aka our Honey Pwat.
The Firefox extension consisted of three things.  

1) The redirect to our forensic logger Tor bridge.  
2) The SUPERCERT or a VeriSign code object signing certificate.  
3) A phone home overrides (modification of Mike Perry's Tor Project check)

To clarify, here are the exact modifications of what we done to the original Tor Button.
1) We redirected all traffic to a forensic logging environment to analyze all websites within 24 hours.  By default Tor Button forwards traffic to the localhost:9050.  We set up a remote server with a Tor SOCKS bridge to log all traffic in-order to obtain evidence of individuals browsing Child Pornography on Tor hidden sites.
2) VeriSign has ROOT certificates in 100% of all devices, web browsers, and Operating System.  A trust code object signing certificate from a Trusted Certificate authority allows a silent install of Firefox Extensions when the XPI is clicked.  As an employee who works in that Department I was able use my PKI to issue a Code Signing Certificate for this Anonymous Operation.  An approver happened to only be a phone call to my friend that works at Mozilla.
3) Tor Button has a hidden AJAX request to torproject.org routine that Mike Perry has developed.  We simply rewrote that function to point it to fscked.org thus the "Distributed Denial of Service" against the developer's own website "fscked.org".  According to Mike Perry's blog "Update 11/2/11 @ 4:50pm: I again have experienced a DDoS against fscked.org, again through Tor (though some IPs also appeared to be non-Tor), shortly after posting this article. It seems to have subsided, and was not as strong in intensity as the original attack."  As people realized that Project Honey Pwat was logging everything, and people reformatted their machines, the Tor Button checks against fscked.org declined.

#3 - The number of roots of Anonymous
I am root #3 since 2010.  I was able to Social Engineer first root (BDH or the Operation Payback root) to gain enough "higher" level Anonymous support to start Operation Darknet.  After the take down of Freedom Hosting, I reclaimed the "root" title and the former root gained the nick-name "He-Man".

#4 - Our Denial of Service tool against The Hidden Wiki
We had two versions.  The public a SLOW HEADERS that was programmed in Python based off of Tor Hammer.  The second was a PHP version that was based off the PHP #refref which another Anonymous member leaked in August.  

The PHP version is nicked named THE KRAKEN, as was designed to use mutiple Tor circuits per attack with keeping those connections open against a Tor Hidden service website.

#5 - Tor tax return and incomes of Jacob Appelbaum and Mike Perry
It is no longer a secret of how much Jacob Appelbaum and Mike Perry made in 2010.  From the Tor Project alone, Jacob Appelbaum made close to US $100K.  Mike Perry made close to $90K which was billed through his company "FORMLESS NETWORKING LLC".  

The additional information which I plan to deliver to the FBI are the 2010 corporate tax returns of "FORMLESS NETWORKING LLC" and evidence of both accounting inconsistencies in 2010.   If I was to believe someone, believe in the 99% protesting.  Not people who make close to $100K.  Sure Mike Perry, the only reason I am suggesting this the sole purpose a "a distraction campaign at a key time in Tor's funding and development cycle.".  

And Mike Perry, "Who pays their salary, I wonder?"  I know who pays my. It's Symantec Inc.  Do you know who pays yours?  *One hint*,  It's the US Government or the US State Department through NGO's.

#6 - pr0f_srs the terrorist
pr0f, your stupid pasting, Pastebins with comments about my hacked emails and chat logs.  It means you log IRC conversations.  Your SCADA hacking lead to the destruction of SCADA water pumps an utility company in South Houston, Texas, USA.

Your hacking resulted in the terrorist act of destorying a critical US infrastructure system.  Me and what my fellow friends did for Operation Darknet did was take out a major Child Porn trading site.   Who is more evil?  Let's pr0f this...

Also if you think I am lying about honey potting your IP?  Maybe you should not log onto Anonworld aka Anonnet IRC to brag about your Texas Utiliy SCADA hack.  Why is that IRC important?  

1) Anonworld aka Anonnet blocks Tor nodes
2) When I social engineered pr0f_srs to click on an article with his SCADA hack, I noticed the Tor IP of exit1.ipredator.se
3) However your host mask of pr0f was a DSL provider in Hungary.  Smart move, idiot.

Sorry pr0f_srs I know you’re a heavy Tor user.  But when you relay on it too much, maybe you should be using a VPN provider such as hidemyass.com.  Don't worry with NDAA, Guantanamo Bay is a good place for you pr0f_srs.  Sure you’re a terrorist with computer skills, but do something more worthwhile in your life than sellout your fellow Anons who are trying to do something good (such as taking and identifying users of Child Pornography).   

I on the other hand am a Patriot to the USA.  I am responsible for taking out 40+ child pornography websites.  What did you do pr0f?  Maybe you are user of Lolita City but were smart enough to not install our Tor Button.  You knew about the HARD CANDY section of The Hidden Wiki.  pr0f, you knew how to look up the IP of our forensic server.    I’m going to start calling you a terrorist and pedophile okay?

Also, I heard you tried getting a membership into a 0-day trading site that the creators of Duqu + Stuxnet are admins.  Instead you got banned.  Sorry, but maybe you should stop twittering.  That is going to be your downfall.  As I told you, stop being an idiot and focus on important things in life.  

I am not a traitor as you would think I am to be.  The FBI + Interpol would not even bother chasing down 190 IP's of users trying to access child pornography.  I had an ultimatum.  So I emailed the FBI and the US Department of Justice Chief Prosecutor responsible for the prosecution of cybercrime in the US.

I never would have expected, vicious to hack my email account.  I am sorry if the German Party, piratenpad.net scandal busted you vicious.  But I am not responsible for that.  I would assume it was pr0f_srs that planted the Child Pornography links and emailed the German police about those links.

To the rest of the Anon's, do what is right.  Do not do anything illegal, if you do, be willing to accept the consequences.  For example pr0f_srs who may have thought hacking into a Water Utility System for the lulz, it makes him no different than a terrorist with al-Qaeda.  

Do what you feel is morally and legally right (in your respective countries).

-
Root #3 aka Tony Berman